we're back on Okay, So I mean so there's a couple force is going on right.
I mean there's some stuff still some tough stuff happening in your community.
But at the same time that i've got this gentrification.
Yeah. And then Okay, all right. I got friends from from college, and they come down here in your store about what the change has been, because we they remember when this place where nobody really wanted to be here right And so when the first, when the bars started first like that
remember so to that close the up close the beautiful so you see bars and i'm 21, and i'm like I could drink, and I'm identifying my community in a different way i'm older i'm coming home
from college. and wow! this is because I went away to school.
It was very close. Sometimes I came over the weekends, especially when I stopped playing basketball, and I used to work here.
Yeah. So I stay kind of connected. Yeah, we come down. We come down here and we fraudulent these little bars and stuff like that.
And people from the neighborhood was in the bars. Yeah, and I draw it in like, Oh, we all grew up.
We could drink her head on Thor. hey? this is nice Oh, i'm seeing some trees and some nice good things happening.
This is good. right you've seen a patch of grass you can see a patch of grass Now you put next to a church.
Now we've seen a patch of grass and a place where I used to play with glass like I just told you.
Now is grass here. This is good yeah this is good i'm like, All right.
Yeah, the waterfront it was you know homeless people were always relegated on the waterfront.
It's nothing to walk by and I was just bike riding over here on the waterfront i'm like, Yeah, it's fucking bike lanes and shit like that.
Why am I resenting these things? yeah i'm thinking you know why I was officially, because I should have been here 10 years ago?
It's so late you know and so you know I never I didn't like people coming to the boss didn't Now one more i'm coming to these bars and these new people coming in and i'm from the
neighborhood. And now the guys at the bounces tell us that we can't come in, and now we don't have the right to rest.
Code, and it's like yeah and i'm saunas I'm.
Seeing this as this pattern where old money is now now give you more new money, and I've seen this billets on businesses, and so they're the man is used.
The way businesses run, get it. This stuff in the way Landlords are harassed residents. They don't want to.
Old residents anymore. The money was good to sustain us.
Now we got new people coming. Yeah, and that's what I was feeling like this money to have invested in this community. I'm.
29 years old. How much money that I put in this neighborhood!
My little checks. Yeah, Now it's not for me anymore.
Yeah, my first little dollar, where my cost street to some bay green board, something money where I invested in it.
And when when the party weren't safe, that was my mother and parents, they went and made complaints about that you know they did, they did community cleanups, it was us when the city wouldn't even do it so it's like
Wow! Now I can't even go to a bar here then I was looking for waitressing.
This is when it was really hitting me i'm looking for waitressing jobs in the middle, and my school when I saw early you would get out in May, so I thought that was a benefit man I'm.
Like yo. This is a benefit we get out of me.
I can definitely get new job. Yeah, i'm ahead of everybody No.
Could not find a job, and I did not say that I really it was discrimination.
I really feel it because I don't know how to look for a job. I know how to look for a job.
Trust me. and when the job openings were there I came.
I was there. All I did was leave resumes in every places and stuff like that, and it really hit me when I was leaving one guy he was doing interviews.
He's just this lady I said, Oh, i'm here for an interview. Yeah, he doesn't even acknowledge me, either. After he just interviewed her he walked and started cutting lemons, and I was like Oh, i'm here
for an interview. It says that you don't interview so i'm here for that.
Yeah, he's like, Oh, yeah, okay, I said So are you he says, no, we're not doing it anymore.
I thought, Ok, is there a time I can come back he's like No, just leave your resume.
Just leave it. And I said, Okay, thank you. So then I walked out and I said, Let me just go back and ask them what is a good time to call.
So I went back. Well, Fuck was throwing my resume in the garbage. Throwing Myers me in the fucking garbage.
I got my way back with them. They used to keep this freaking sign in front of the store all the time.
Man I call make so many complaints in them I don't know how many fines they got, and you could follow up. It's real. it's evidence all you've got it people don't want to do this call 301 make the
complaint they'll give you a ticket number reference you follow up.
It's so easy it's so easy and I got they got at least 2 fines for me, because I never kept track, but i'm like Wow!
All these people that work in these stores don't need neither from the neighborhood.
I thought it was be a benefit, but that was what he used to work against me.
Yeah, he probably bought. Oh, man, and this is what who never got told me we usually don't.
We have somebody here look I said I worked here as i'm local and i'm flexible i'm saying all things they want to hear. i'm like i'm right here so whenever you need me i'm on a call
that's a that's like a benefit for a restaurant like, Yeah, but we have some guy here, and he was hooking up his friends.
So I was like, Well, that's that guy you know what i'm saying, and he did.
They hire me. they hired me to work. but then that made me realize, like just why people were not, maybe who put things in perspective.
Well, now, i'm seeing the neighborhood change a lot Those streets are getting more crowded, unable, and is no longer neighborhood.
It is a destination. I look on the Internet there's flashy, beautiful colors, and it's describing the Low East Side like some real hips to place to go and have fun and party at and it's not talking
about the churches. it's not talking about the schools it's not talking about the families and hospitals like things that constitute communities like they're not talking about those things in these flashy little websites you're talking
about. this is a destination, then a lot of punching dentrification on Google.
That shit Monday so comes up. Oh, that's the Gut is really like.
Imagine just going up here and seeing that shit that will fuck you our head up like Wow!
Places where it was crack bars everywhere. not people want to live here, or when they saw a beautiful at the end of the day.
I can enjoy that something seriously wrong. Oh, look at that! Yeah.
So you talked about community, I mean, first of all, like what?
What does that word mean to you? How do you define?
All right. Well, you could break it up. Yeah. And when you break up the word, you know, like unity, Yeah, you know, come and unify.
Yeah, come and unite right community. And what I think about is like. Well, people actually tell me that they didn't have people tell me that.
Wow! you know what your neighborhood is really like a village like you really people that come from outside, even in Urban village.
Yeah, they're like well. no, not like a real sense of community like I went to school where people I went to elementary school, and I still see these people and my sister's woman.
She was telling me that she goes back to her neighborhood and starting out the Long Island of Staten Island, one of those Long Island.
Yeah, and the block isn't the same everybody's not you know she doesn't know everybody walking down the street, and if she does, she just met them where we're not walking down the street.
I've known these people since I was 5 or you know i've seen it.
It's very as deep How it's very liability over here, like everybody's been in each other's lives for for many years for many years.
It's deep and i'm like Wow! I don't want to take that for granted, my friend before I came there.
So I have to go. have an interview. I have to leave.
I have to go do this in a but I went to preschool work, and we could catch up sisters because i'm always as if we cut out some blood sisters shit.
So that was my ketchup system. I still see her people know I can't put anything on anybody in this neighborhood, because everybody knows who I was when I was with them.
So those are the people that you grew up with that a little bit for a while.
What about the new folks that are moving in? Are they being on the part of the lower city?
When I was little I used to hope for this right? Yeah, I used to work at Goldman Sachs as Big-time Trading Company in the Lowe side.
I used to get. I was wondering why all the people I work with Don't live over here, and I used to tell my coworkers I was young. I was an intern and then they put me on full-time.
Like. so i'm just like they just like the way I works i'm working in this corporate place full of time, and I say that my coworkers you travel hours to get here.
It takes me 30 min. Yeah, I was like i'll get Why, people don't live over here.
It's not as bad people think. I used to say that and then I saw, I remember this white couple coming in neighborhood, because you had when you saw white people in his neighborhood.
Yeah, they were on drugs. They were undercover cop or made me some artists that did not give a fuck like that. Was this like fuck.
I'm an artist, and i'm asking a new York That's That's what you have those are the 3 types of white people. That's it, and this be honest.
Right so I saw these 2 I saw this white cup come and I remember I remember this day, and they said we're looking for housing, and i'm like I'm.
So they should go to my projects and i'm like you know what where I live at my field is nice it's nice.
It's beautiful. yes, are moving there and what I was thinking of was like, Wow, my neighbor, would we get more mixed, and everybody would be mixed like I always always like that?
I'm always like that. my mother's raises like that the first time I said something bad about the right person.
I didn't even know what that meant because my mother's one of my mother's best friends are white but I never put that connection, and never thought of color.
Were I just really didn't like that's how innocent it is, and I forgot something happened when we got followed in the store by these white people, these white people.
They all came on crying about it. and I was like white people I'm a fuck them Well, we made me nursing.
I was so angry, and my mother said, Oh, you got pull that i'm like, yeah fuckin.
Oh, like doesn't really mean music Oh, why don't you tell me all that i'm a pubble call right now, and I was like to, and it slowly dawned on me, and I was like no I remember begging
my mother and crying because mobile she is white and you real right. Go tell everything.
It's all me tell her and that's when I had to literally put things in perspective.
I've always wanted things mixed up and then? I was like wow! you know what then?
What it is is where things like, what society's teaching me to make these differences. it's not like I really should just take people who they are always mixing. and whatever yeah, But maybe they're not mixing right this is yeah, So the mixing that
actually happened. No, no, the good things that happen at this time because what I feel like, if you ask me, it's like a disdain type of this position.
I feel with the new folk coming in the hood.
Yeah, yeah, you could just stand in the middle of the satellite, but i'm fucking loose here, but I gotta walk through and it
It's more like the people that ask me for directions and Don't look at me in my eye, don't fucking.
Ask me should have you skit don't do it the other day I was this lady. You can tell she's illegally.
She's legally. I don't know what she was doing over here in the practice over there.
But she was over there, and you know, because I seen her a couple of times.
I think she just knows somebody over here. But the whole thing was like.
She got a little nervous when he was walking out like I felt like she got a little nervous because she looked, and then she saw sleeping up a little bit, and that happens to me a lot.
So it's like almost the way I know it's like oh, man, fuck that bitch!
And then the other day I forgot somebody I was looking how's the poem.
So i'm I was looking for something I forgot what happened I just bumped into this guy by accident.
I wasn't looking he's like yo fucking watch where you going, and i'm looking at this white mother fuck.
I'm like yo ass is bosy 10 years ago.
You want to even curl the lift up talk to me that way.
I know You wouldn't have and so just getting this you want to go to bars. it's like everybody don't get carted.
They're not come in I get carted and it's like I mean, I don't look young, but it's just like all these little different things that I noticed that I mean one day this lady we just we was
celebrating willing a victory for affordable housing in this white woman.
She comes he sits there, she's like she comes in and she's like oh, can I sit with all because it's so noisy in there?
So I was like i'm thinking she's an old school white person like the white people that's been here for a year, and one of the women is and they tie in the bar too.
So I thought she was one of the bus down man are we talking.
We're drinking, and then she had a whole different idea of her existence in our community.
She was. when I told her about the affordable housing opportunities.
She was not completely guessed at. She was like Oh, I don't get it.
I mean you just should work for what you get like. I work, You see where I am today.
I worked for that. I earned this and if you ask me we're making the neighborhood better.
This is what she's telling me the neighbor was shit when people lived here before, and all this other stuff this lady's like going on about how my nate like horses.
This benefit to my neighborhood, and I couldn't believe it and I was like, I said this: you're looking at what we do.
We move from things that are public to not private you're looking out of town where nobody had control over what repairs happen in the building, let alone in the apartments.
Yes, slum landlords who care less about the residents.
Then you now will move into more private sector with everything.
And now people want to give a fuck about shit.
And now landlords want to make sure things are correct because they're going to make more money off of that.
And I said what my mother fought for the change and the reason why we lived here was not because of choice he was forced to.
There's no else to live. Yeah, and this and what this piece of shit hold, and when we make the change, you should enjoy it.
You came here, not because you didn't have a choice because you wanted to.
You know what i'm saying. he was a foolish appreciation Yeah.
And then She was just like I found myself she's just like no, no! we make the neighborhood better.
The people who didn't appreciate it i'm like Well, you wasn't there when somebody called 5 6 times for the mail to fix their house. That's why he's blue that's how he's building black
decrepit over a period of time. you know you were here when the sanitation wasn't picking up things regularly.
This is the whole city. Why, don't they pick up garbage as regular as they did in other parts of the city. It wasn't here one for that. so you can't say that people didn't care about what he lived at because my
mother did. My mother cared about where we lived at and i'm happy, and i'm fine, and then even the bars the new bottle is, they have the same idea.
Well, nobody wanted to be here. and now we have these businesses i'm like man. you're still disruptive.
You still give back to the community and you still have people that you're lining up and causing ruckus in our neighborhood.
Please. Sorry, not serving the neighborhood. You asked even anybody else to like.
The long-standing white people in the neighborhood.
They were saying the job you were saying them. I swear to God they would say.
Douglas protected little from all the drug dealers that's what it was.
I even heard this one time I was getting my taxes done in this guy.
He was an old police officer in the area, and he was like yeah, this neighborhood was bad.
That's why I do this now. he was bragging about how the cops will get cold, and they will wait for 3 cop cars to come to respond before they would get out the car.
Do anything. They had to be 3 on-site, and how none of them ever wanted to get there.
Of course. Now i've watched people die i've watched people die in the street because no cops came.
I would watch that that's my reality it's happened twice in my life, twice so many, and I remember once i'm on Grand Street, I'm.
Looking outside, and everybody's out. but there's no cell phone at the time people were out there windows like I saw every window with a phone, and the analysts took 45 min to get there Those are the longest 5 5
minutes i've ever seen, and this kid died and captures the suitcase covers to beat up kids in my neighborhood.
You people used to come back fuck up from cops.
This, was it. This was us. This was it and so yeah we deserve it. and you know, why can't we live with each other collectively?
I mean? Why, can't they be an inclusion like an all-inclusive community?
I'm down for that you know when they start tarting all the schools up chopping them up. and you have pts that can actually support a computer lab.
And do all this other stuff, but they want it on their it. They went on their terms, and kids got to take specialized tests in these public schools.
There's something wrong with that. you know so I remember when I thought maybe if that's what that lady man I went home and cried on the homicide.
And I wanted to. Yeah, I felt helpless, and I was like, you know what, miss?
I remember me somehow, like trying to hold back my test i'm very sensitive, you know, Miss, you enjoy your food, and you have a nice, beautiful night, and I got out out of there and I fucking literally was crying.
It was so funny, too. People have seen me crying in the street about, and it's always about what they would do they think it's about a guy they'd be like wait stop what's wrong and i'm like where and i'm really
up joking, but literally just the other day I was crying in the corner, because I saw like on avenue D is all to under Avenue D is like the Mecca violence for the low East side Ok.
It's the last avenue hey? and this is fucking it's not having d is df you know that's what it is like.
You're anywhere i'm on the app there's thousands of apps in the city.
But you on the Ad. and that place was violent and now, when you see development like a kuchie frito place that I used to go to.
I don't have memories of going to the cookie feature place after the hospital soup.
They had a nice little chicken soup. Yeah, I could go to the coachie feature phrase and get that soup.
It was minority owned they've been here forever.
These are the businesses that was serving us and nobody wanted to right now.
They're going on the corner going we don't know what's going to come of that.
I don't know it's gonna be built there but i'll tell you this much.
I know it's not going to be for me and that's why I got involved with the organization, because I wanted to be more a part of the the solution than a part of a problem and I felt like I was alone.
And when I came back from college, one of the things that I look for I was raised in public housing.
One of the things is, if you are under employer unemployed, you have to do community service, mandatory community service.
If you do not do it, The consequences of addiction is a Federal law. that's only applicable.
I'm. Surely so residents that live in public housing across the country.
But where does that come from? Stigmatizations, right synthesizations of people that live in public housing, nation even subsidies? right?
You have those sigmatizations for that suddenly, people are lazy bombs and his violence and his drugs, and they're living up the government.
They take up my tax dollars and all of these great things really think that that's those negative things are spilled this day.
If they spill into our everyday lives. the way services are allocated and and in the way, even money's appropriate to them from our government levels.
The way police come in our community, the way policies are written.
These things spill these secretizations, skill into our realities, and make it harder for us to live.
And so here we got a Federal lawyer. says Oh, you have to do mandatory community service, and I just came out of college, and I got 6 months to find a job, and that 6 months passed and I didn't have a job.
Yeah, we're going I didn't you I don't think you should try? Yeah, and I was even waged that that was before in the middle.
Forget about that. when it was 12 my career I was looking for all this stuff like teaching and stuff like that, and come on, I couldn't find a job, and so that affected me.
Then I see a flaw. I was like totally against the community service requiring them.
So I got to do 96 h because I can't find a job yet.
That's fucked up all my mother, and all of us get evicted.
See you flying my building and this flight some people to do the community service.
There's some people to do to share whose goals it was goals, and it was a meeting that said Oh, word you told me to do the slave shit.
I'm coming on my way with date boom I bought 6 home girls.
My whole girls. I grew up I ain't seen in the years.
I just like I said, Listen: You know, Yeah, about this community service.
Yeah, we need to go to this meeting. So we came in there.
Hood, who's presented the Maris way is another member that we have a model Morales and i'm like, Yeah, we signed out a little signage sheet. We hear what I got to say about this bull shit community
service. The Marathon is educating people and telling them. Listen.
You have to do this schooning service because it's a federal law, and you can get evicted.
But you know what the same way it's a Federal law you can fight it on a Federal level, and here's the way that you can do it, and that's how I got involved with go to the lower East Side they found me
to work. but that community service of requirements shit was fucked up, and i'm like damn I just came out of school.
Yeah, why is this only happening to me so i'm seeing just a lot of how?
How my community is being singled out. Yeah, and people have these war processions of like tax dollars, like the average average person like my brothers, like my brothers, are even like they're like some concept They have These conservative views.
I'm like you black man what do you fucking What do you mean? Like they're even conservative like?
No, they believe that bootstrap shit, too, you know you got to pull yourself up. Magic boom straps.
You have to pull yourself up by your bootstraps i'm working on a quote.
I haven't refined I have beer with me try to it's like we talk about this idea of I believe in that. I'm worried about Hear this. i'm worried about the person that actually believes that they can pull themselves up
by the boost. shafts because they're not thinking about the person that has to make the boots clean the boots, sell the boot You know what i'm saying, Yeah, there's a whole other bigger picture around that fucking book
Yeah, Ok, yeah, we can pull ourselves up the phone, you know, and we never think about those things like, Yeah.
So you go make okay. if everybody's pulling it so the Buddy Boosh!
I, said he's going to start making no wolves. yeah, they don't make them shine our own boots.
If we're gonna pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps, because then everybody's living equally, and nobody's doing it, you know, like, Come on, we know this is going to always be an unjust society everything but does it have to
be so hard? Does inequality have to be so hard?
You know I don't get you know what I always think There's going to be some type of bureaucracy somewhere, but I mean, how are hierarchy like boom, boom, boom boom, boot the end of
the day. Does that have to be so hard that's that though when I came back in my neighborhood, and i'm seeing like them, I gotta do service.
It's a different case. I want to be I want to fight this, and then, when I found, when goals gave me the vehicle, I decided to be a part of the solution, not the problem, not the complainer, and not this
person but by myself. You know my folks are felt like people had my back.
I felt like those frozen my game I did. Yeah, and I used to do things off the strength of before I work.
That's why I think I have me because I just I love my organization, and I would be. I would tell business owners like this business owner.
There was a crowd was all crazy in the front and I was like listen.
I'm a member of good or louis so I don't know a froze, but we don't like this shit, and if you want people protesting in front of your business.
Then keep this going, and actually the guy's like no man I fill you off on the neighborhood.
So he was a government neighborhood, and he was like, No, I know they act Okay, I said, Man, control this shit control.
This fucking party on the block because I can't fire you in the block.
We're not staying on the block I deal with you when we stand on the block and talk cop Stop us and tell us to keep it, moving, or I've seen kids get strip searched in front of fucking mad people where cops pulled on their
pants pulling a pants and you got 6 squad cars, and i'm like what was that kid doing writing his bike on the style.
You know i've been a grass I had the cockpit gun.
I don't mean was they had the guns drawing because we was in the parkland basketball.
We had beads of sweat coming down our heads.
This is when I was younger, and we was like yo and this is when it's already forcing on that shit. Oh, and a bar's got to be closed that song was always dim but nobody ever before that shit not to
enforced that shit, not enforcing to know what parts i me clothes.